README.md, before:

# Orbitdeterminator: Automated satellite orbit determination

[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/9c770ba2dd9d48fa8ba3ac207b9f5c85)](https://www.codacy.com/app/201452004/orbitdeterminator?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=aerospaceresearch/orbitdeterminator&utm_campaign=badger)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aerospaceresearch/orbitdeterminator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aerospaceresearch/orbitdeterminator)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/orbit-determinator/badge/?version=latest)](http://orbit-determinator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

## Quick Start

__orbitdeterminator__ is a package written in python3 for determining orbit of satellites based on positional data. Various filtering and determination algorithms are available for satellite operators to choose from.  

### Installation Instructions

##### Virtual environment setup
For this guide we will be using **miniconda**

**Step 1**: Install miniconda using script and instruction [here](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html)

**Step 2**: After installation, create a virtualenv with python3.5 as
```
conda create -n env_name python=3.5.2
```
**Step 3**: Activate your virtualenv
```
conda activate env_name
```
*Rest of the guide will assume that virtualenv is activated
#### Linux Users
Run the following commands to install orbitdeterminator:

**Step 1**: Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/aerospaceresearch/orbitdeterminator/
```
**Step 2**: Change directory to orbitdeterminator
```
cd orbitdeterminator
```
**Step 3**: Install required dependencies
```
sudo apt-get install python-tk
```
and
```
python setup.py install
```
or manually install with
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
**Step 4**: Test your setup
```
pytest
```
If guide is followed correctly then pytest will not show any failed test case. After this, program can be used (to learn how to use the program check orbitdeterminator tutorials [here](https://orbit-determinator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples.html))
#### Windows/macOS Users
All the steps are same except for **Step 3** from Linux Users guide

For **Step 3**, instead of using pip use conda to install pykep and matplotlib
```
conda install pykep==2.1
conda install matplotlib
```
Now, remove these two dependencies from requirements.txt and then run
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Commit message:

Added alternate method to 'Conda' in README.md
As mentioned by Arya Das, instruction for the alternate method has been added for those people who don't want to use Conda.

README.md, after:

# Orbitdeterminator: Automated satellite orbit determination

[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/9c770ba2dd9d48fa8ba3ac207b9f5c85)](https://www.codacy.com/app/201452004/orbitdeterminator?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=aerospaceresearch/orbitdeterminator&utm_campaign=badger)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aerospaceresearch/orbitdeterminator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/aerospaceresearch/orbitdeterminator)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/orbit-determinator/badge/?version=latest)](http://orbit-determinator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

## Quick Start

__orbitdeterminator__ is a package written in python3 for determining orbit of satellites based on positional data. Various filtering and determination algorithms are available for satellite operators to choose from.  

## Installation Instructions

### Virtual environment setup
For this guide we will be using **miniconda**, you are free to use any virtual environment setup

**Step 1**: Install miniconda using script and instruction [here](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html)

**Step 2**: After installation, create a virtualenv with python3.5 as
```
conda create -n env_name python=3.5.2
```
**Step 3**: Activate your virtualenv
```
conda activate env_name
```
*Rest of the guide will assume that virtualenv is activated
### Linux Users
Run the following commands to install orbitdeterminator:

**Step 1**: Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/aerospaceresearch/orbitdeterminator/
```
**Step 2**: Change directory to orbitdeterminator
```
cd orbitdeterminator
```
**Step 3**: Install required dependencies
```
sudo apt-get install python-tk
```
and
```
python setup.py install
```
or manually install with
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
**Step 4**: Test your setup
```
pytest
```
If guide is followed correctly then pytest will not show any failed test case. After this, program can be used (to learn how to use the program check orbitdeterminator tutorials [here](https://orbit-determinator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples.html))
### Windows/macOS Users
All the steps are same except for **Step 3** from Linux Users guide

For **Step 3**, instead of using pip use conda to install **pykep** and **matplotlib**
```
conda install pykep==2.1
conda install matplotlib
```
Now, remove these two dependencies from requirements.txt and then run
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
#### Alternate Method for Windows/macOS Users

If you don't want to use conda to install **pykep** and **matplotlib**, then you can just build pykep from source with instructions from their official website [here](https://esa.github.io/pykep/installation.html), and remove pykep as dependency from requirement file. After this you can follow guide for Linux users above.
