docs/examples.rst, before:

Tutorials
=========

Run the program with main.py
----------------------------

For the first example we will showcase how you can use the full features of the package
with main.py. Simply executing the main.py by giving the name of .csv file that contains
the positional data of the satellite, as an argument in the function process(data_file)::

    def process(data_file, error_apriori):
        '''
        Given a .csv data file in the format of (time, x, y, z) applies both filters, generates a filtered.csv data
        file, prints out the final keplerian elements computed from both Lamberts and Interpolation and finally plots
        the initial, filtered data set and the final orbit.

        Args:
            data_file (string): The name of the .csv file containing the positional data
            error_apriori (float): apriori estimation of the measurements error in km

        Returns:
            Runs the whole process of the program
        '''

Simply input the name of the .csv file in the format of (time, x, y, z) like the orbit.csv that is located
in the  orbitdeterminator package alongside main.py and the process will run. You also need
to input a apriori estimation of the measurements errors which in the example case is 20km per point (points
every 1 second). In the case you are using your own positional data set you need to estimate this value and input
it because it is critical for the filtering process::

    run = process("orbit.csv")

.. warning::

   If the format of you data is (time, azimuth, elevation, distance) you can use the input_transf function first

The process that will run with the use of the process function is, first the program reads your data from the .csv file
then, applies both filters (Triple moving average and Savintzky - Golay), generates a .csv file called filtered, that included the filtered data set,
computes the keplerian elements of the orbit with both methods (Lamberts - Kalman and Spline Interpolation) and finally prints and plots some results.
More specifically, the results printed by this process will be first the sum and mean value of the residuals
(difference between filtered and initial data), the computed keplerian elements in format of (a - semi major axis,
e - eccentricity, i - inclination, ω - argument of perigee, Ω - right ascension of the ascending node,
v - true anomaly) and a 3d matplotlib graph that plots the initial, filtered data set and the final computed orbit
described by the keplerian elements (via the interpolation method).

Process
~~~~~~~

- Reads the data
- Uses both filters on them (Triple moving average and Savintzky - Golay )
- Generates a .csv file called filtered that includes the filtered data set
- Computes keplerian elements with both methods (Lamberts - Kalman and Spline Interpolation)
- Prints results and plot a 3d matplotlib graph

Results
~~~~~~~

- Sum and mean of the residuals (differences between filtered and initial data set)
- Final keplerian elements from both methods (first column : Lamberts - Kalman, second column : Spline Interpolation)
- 3d matplotlib graph with the initial, filtered data set and the final orbit described by the keplerian elements from Spline Interpolation

.. warning::

   Measurement unit for distance is kilometer and for angle degrees

The output should look like the following image.

.. figure::  results.jpg



Using certain modules
---------------------

In this example we are not going to use the main.py, but some of the main modules provided. First of all lets clear the
path we are going to follow which is fairly straightforward. Note that we are going to use the same orbit.csv that is
located inside the orbitdeterminator package.

Process
~~~~~~~
- Read the data
- Filter the data
- Compute keplerian elements for the final orbit

So first we read the data using the util/read_data.load_data function. Just input the .csv file name into the
function and it will create a numpy array with the positional data ready to be processed::

    data = read_data.load_data("orbit.csv")

.. warning::

   If the format of you data is (time, azimuth, elevation, distance) you can use the util/input_transf.spher_to_cart
   function first. And it is critical for the x, y, z to be in kilometers.

We continue by applying the Triple moving average filter::

    data_after_filter = triple_moving_average.generate_filtered_data(data, 3)

We suggest using 3 as the window size of the filter. Came to this conclusion after a lot of testing. Next we apply
the second filter to the data set which will be of a larger window size so that we can smooth the data set in
a larger scale. The optimal window size for the Savintzky - Golay filter is being computed by the function
golay_window.c(error_apriori) in which we only have to input the apriori error estimation for the initial data set
(or the measurements error)::

    error_apriori = 20.0
    c = golay_window.c(error_apriori)

    window = len(data) / c
    window = int(window)

The other 2 lines after the use of the golay_window.c(error_apriori) are needed to compute the window size for the
Savintzky - Golay filter and again for the polynomial parameter of the filter we suggest using 3::

    data_after_filter = sav_golay.golay(data_after_filter, window, 3)

At this point we have the filtered positional data set ready to be inputed into the
Lamberts - Kalman and Spline interpolation algorithms so that the final keplerian elements can be computed::

    kep_lamb = lamberts_kalman.create_kep(data_after_filter)
    kep_final_lamb = lamberts_kalman.kalman(kep_lamb, 0.01 ** 2)
    kep_inter = interpolation.main(data_after_filter)
    kep_final_inter = lamberts_kalman.kalman(kep_inter, 0.01 ** 2)

With the above 4 lines of code the final set of 6 keplerian elements is computed by the two methods.
The output format is (semi major axis (a), eccentricity (e), inclination (i), argument of perigee (ω),
right ascension of the ascending node (Ω), true anomaly (v)). So finally, in the variables kep_final_lamb and
kep_final_inter a numpy array 1x6 has the final computed keplerian elements.

.. warning::

   If the orbit you want to compute is polar (i = 90) then we suggest you to use only the interpolation method.

Commit message:

documentation and adding data files into src folder (#90)

docs/examples.rst, after:

Tutorials
=========

Run the program with main.py
----------------------------

For the first example we will showcase how you can use the full features of the package
with main.py. Simply executing the main.py by giving the name of .csv file that contains
the positional data of the satellite, as an argument in the function process(data_file)::

    def process(data_file, error_apriori):
        '''
        Given a .csv data file in the format of (time, x, y, z) applies both filters, generates a filtered.csv data
        file, prints out the final keplerian elements computed from both Lamberts and Interpolation and finally plots
        the initial, filtered data set and the final orbit.

        Args:
            data_file (string): The name of the .csv file containing the positional data
            error_apriori (float): apriori estimation of the measurements error in km

        Returns:
            Runs the whole process of the program
        '''

Simply input the name of the .csv file in the format of (time, x, y, z) and **tab delimiter** like the orbit.csv that is
located in the src folder and the process will run. You also need to input a apriori estimation of the measurements
errors, which in the example case is 20km per point (points every 1 second). In the case you are using your own
positional data set you need to estimate this value and input it because it is critical for the filtering process::

    run = process("orbit.csv")

.. warning::

   If the format of you data is (time, azimuth, elevation, distance) you can use the input_transf function first and be sure that the delimiter for the data file is tab delimiter since this is the one read_data supports.

The process that will run with the use of the process function is, first the program reads your data from the .csv file
then, applies both filters (Triple moving average and Savintzky - Golay), generates a .csv file called filtered, that included the filtered data set,
computes the keplerian elements of the orbit with both methods (Lamberts - Kalman and Spline Interpolation) and finally prints and plots some results.
More specifically, the results printed by this process will be first the sum and mean value of the residuals
(difference between filtered and initial data), the computed keplerian elements in format of (a - semi major axis,
e - eccentricity, i - inclination, ω - argument of perigee, Ω - right ascension of the ascending node,
v - true anomaly) and a 3d matplotlib graph that plots the initial, filtered data set and the final computed orbit
described by the keplerian elements (via the interpolation method).

Process
~~~~~~~

- Reads the data
- Uses both filters on them (Triple moving average and Savintzky - Golay )
- Generates a .csv file called filtered that includes the filtered data set
- Computes keplerian elements with both methods (Lamberts - Kalman and Spline Interpolation)
- Prints results and plot a 3d matplotlib graph

Results
~~~~~~~

- Sum and mean of the residuals (differences between filtered and initial data set)
- Final keplerian elements from both methods (first column : Lamberts - Kalman, second column : Spline Interpolation)
- 3d matplotlib graph with the initial, filtered data set and the final orbit described by the keplerian elements from Spline Interpolation

.. warning::

   Measurement unit for distance is kilometer and for angle degrees

The output should look like the following image.

.. figure::  results.jpg



Using certain modules
---------------------

In this example we are not going to use the main.py, but some of the main modules provided. First of all lets clear the
path we are going to follow which is fairly straightforward. Note that we are going to use the same orbit.csv that is
located inside the src folder and has **tab delimeter** (read_data.py reads with this delimiter).

Process
~~~~~~~
- Read the data
- Filter the data
- Compute keplerian elements for the final orbit

So first we read the data using the util/read_data.load_data function. Just input the .csv file name into the
function and it will create a numpy array with the positional data ready to be processed::

    data = read_data.load_data("orbit.csv")

.. warning::

   If the format of you data is (time, azimuth, elevation, distance) you can use the util/input_transf.spher_to_cart
   function first. And it is critical for the x, y, z to be in kilometers.

We continue by applying the Triple moving average filter::

    data_after_filter = triple_moving_average.generate_filtered_data(data, 3)

We suggest using 3 as the window size of the filter. Came to this conclusion after a lot of testing. Next we apply
the second filter to the data set which will be of a larger window size so that we can smooth the data set in
a larger scale. The optimal window size for the Savintzky - Golay filter is being computed by the function
golay_window.c(error_apriori) in which we only have to input the apriori error estimation for the initial data set
(or the measurements error)::

    error_apriori = 20.0
    c = golay_window.c(error_apriori)

    window = len(data) / c
    window = int(window)

The other 2 lines after the use of the golay_window.c(error_apriori) are needed to compute the window size for the
Savintzky - Golay filter and again for the polynomial parameter of the filter we suggest using 3::

    data_after_filter = sav_golay.golay(data_after_filter, window, 3)

At this point we have the filtered positional data set ready to be inputed into the
Lamberts - Kalman and Spline interpolation algorithms so that the final keplerian elements can be computed::

    kep_lamb = lamberts_kalman.create_kep(data_after_filter)
    kep_final_lamb = lamberts_kalman.kalman(kep_lamb, 0.01 ** 2)
    kep_inter = interpolation.main(data_after_filter)
    kep_final_inter = lamberts_kalman.kalman(kep_inter, 0.01 ** 2)

With the above 4 lines of code the final set of 6 keplerian elements is computed by the two methods.
The output format is (semi major axis (a), eccentricity (e), inclination (i), argument of perigee (ω),
right ascension of the ascending node (Ω), true anomaly (v)). So finally, in the variables kep_final_lamb and
kep_final_inter a numpy array 1x6 has the final computed keplerian elements.

.. warning::

   If the orbit you want to compute is polar (i = 90) then we suggest you to use only the interpolation method.
